[Data reduction techniques for Import modeling](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/power-bi/guidance/import-modeling-data-reduction/).
# Metadata & Column
## Metadata
Metadata provides information about other data, making data easier to retrieve, manipulate and manage. 
Example: table names, column names, relationships or data types. 
Analyzing metadata to identify: unnecessary columns, errors within your data, incorrect data types, the volume of data being loaded (large semantic models, including transactional or historic data, will take longer to load), and much more.
## Column 
Column hold data for various attributes or variables. 
Each column has a specific data type. 
# Data preview
Data preview: understanding the metadata of the columns.
**Column Quality**, **Column Distribution**, and **Column Profile.**
> [!Note]
> If you are reviewing a large semantic model with more than 1,000 rows, and you want to analyze that whole semantic model, you need to change the default option at the bottom of the window. Select **Column profiling based on top 1000 rows** **>** **Column profiling based on entire data set**.
## Inspect Metadata 
 Identify unnecessary columns, errors within your data, incorrect data types, the volume of data being loaded (large semantic models, including transactional or historic data, will take longer to load)
## Inspect the Tables and columns 
- **Remove columns** 
Remove unnecessary columns which take up memory and can slow down queries. 
- **Categorizing Data**
	- In **Data view**, select the column to be categorized and select **Column tools**. 
	- In **Properties** group select **Data category** drop-down and select from the drop down list. 
	- Changing the data category of location-based columns to the appropriate category from the list of options available in Power BI enables accurate geographical analysis and mapping.
- **Remove unnecessary row** 
Checks the first few rows in the semantic model to see if they are empty or if they contain data that you do not need in your reports; if so, it removes those rows by using the **Remove Rows** option on the **Home** tab.
## Change Column Data Types 
Some data types take up more memory than other, select the most appropriate data type can minimize memory usage. 
- **Changing decimal precision and/or data type:** Reducing the number of decimal places to decrease distinct values. The **Fixed Decimal Number** data type specifies the exact number of decimal digits, mitigating performance issues in calculations. You can update the data types of columns in: _**Report view, Model view, Data view, Query Editor**_
## Query name 
Examines the query (table) names in the **Queries** pane.
Change uncommon or unhelpful query names to names that are more obvious or names that the user is more familiar with.


