*Sometimes **Auto Date/Time** feature in Power BI is the root cause of slow dataset connecting and report loading.* 
# The Auto Date/Time feature 
The **Auto Date/Time** feature automatically generates **Date/Time**tables for time-intelligence calculations.
- Whenever you add a field to your data model that has a **Date** data type, Power BI automatically generates a hidden **Date** table for that field. This table includes multiple columns including **Year, Quarter, Month** and **Day** and enable time intelligence calculations. 
It's recommended to **keep Auto date/time option enabled** only when: 
- working with calendar time periods
- having simplistic model requirements in relation to time
# Impact on performance 
When importing a enormous dataset to Power BI, while Power BI automatically generates tables for each **Date/Time** column in your data and the number of tables are overwhelming the system, causing a noticeable slowdown.
# Optimizing the Auto Date/Time feature 
Disabling **Auto Date/Time** feature to ==**lower the size of your sematic model and reduce refresh time**==.
1. **Open Power BI** and go to the **File** tab in the ribbon area.
2. From the menu, select **Options and settings**, then choose **Options**.
3. In the **Options** window, under the **Current file** section, select **Data Load**.
4. Uncheck the **Auto date/time** checkbox to disable the feature for the current file. Click **OK** to apply the changes.
To disable the Auto date/time feature globally for all future files:
1. In the **Options** window, under the **Global** section, select **Data Load**.
2. Clear the **Auto date/time for new files** checkbox under the **Time Intelligence** heading.
## Benefits of disabling the Auto date/time feature 
- **Reduced Data Model Size**
- **Improved Query Performance**: Each time a query that involves a date field is run, Power BI must  interact with these hidden tables.  Disabling the **Auto date/time** feature, simplifies the data model and improves query performance.
- **Greater Flexibility and Control:** With the **Auto date/time** feature enabled, you don't have control over the structure of the hidden **Date** tables created by Power BI
- **Elimination of Redundancy:** In some cases, the **Auto date/time** feature may generate duplicate hidden **Date** tables where there are multiple date fields with the same values. This can lead to redundancy in the data model.
- **Reduced Resource Usage:** The creation of hidden **Date** tables can consume processing and memory resources, particularly i with a large dataset or multiple date/time fields.
